nc: edit page (#10500)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/nc.md

# nc

> Netcat is a versatile utility for redirecting IO into a network stream.
> More information: <https://manned.org/man/nc.1>.

- Start a listener on the specified TCP port and send a file into it:

> `nc -l -p {{port}} < {{sent_file_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nc -l -p {{port}} < {{filename}}`
```
Ref. https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#paths

- Connect to a target listener on the specified port and receive a file from it:

> `nc {{host}} {{port}} > {{received_file_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nc {{host}} {{port}} > {{received_filename}}`
```

- Scan the open TCP ports of a specified host:

`nc -v -z -w {{timeout_in_seconds}} {{host}} {{start_port}}-{{end_port}}`

> - Start a listener on the specified TCP port and provide your local shell access to the connected party (that is dangerous if abused):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Start a listener on the specified TCP port and provide your local shell access to the connected party (this is dangerous and can be abused):
```
How about this?

`nc -l -p {{port}} -e {{shell_executable}}`

> - Connect to a target listener and provide your local shell access to the remote party (that is dangerous if abused):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connect to a target listener and provide your local shell access to the remote party (this is dangerous and can be abused):
```
